# PX1066
This document describes the PX1066 diagnostic.

## Summary

| Code   | Short Description                                                                         | Type                                 | Code Fix    | 
| ------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------ | ----------- | 
| PX1066 | The name of the BQL field may contain a mistake.                                          | Warning (ISV Level 3: Informational) | Available   | 

## Diagnostic Description

In a DAC, a BQL field (a public abstract class) must have the same name as the corresponding DAC field property but with the first letter in a different case (uppercase for DAC field properties and lowercase for BQL fields).
The diagnostic does not check C# properties without Acumatica attributes. These properties are not considered to be DAC field properties.

The PX1066 diagnostic is usually combined with the [PX1065](PX1065.md) diagnostic. The PX1065 diagnostic reports that the DAC field property does not have a corresponding BQL field. 
The PX1066 diagnostic amplifies the PX1065 diagnostic by reporting an error if a BQL field has a name close (but not identical) to the name of a DAC field property meaning that this BQL field has a typo in its name.

The PX1066 diagnostic can report an error in another scenario: when the code includes two DACs, one derived from another, and the derived DAC contains a BQL field without a corresponding property.
The diagnostic will try to check whether there is a typo in this BQL field and suggest names of DAC field properties from the base DAC.

### Terminology

[!NOTE]
This section is a reminder about the terminology used in the diagnostic description. You can skip it if you are already familiar with this terminology.

A **DAC field property** is any C# property declared in a DAC that has attributes derived from PX.Data.PXEventSubscriberAttribute such as `PXDBBool` or `PXInt`. These attributes are sometimes referred to as **Acumatica attributes**.

A BQL field is a public abstract class that implements the `PX.Data.IBqlField` interface. It usually has a corresponding DAC field property that has the same name but in a different casing. Usually, BQL fields use camelCasing and field properties use PascalCasing. Together this pair forms a **DAC field**. The following code shows an example of a DAC field.
```C#
public class DAC : PXBqlTable, IBqlTable
{
    public abstract class orderNbr : PX.Data.BQL.BqlString.Field<orderNbr> { }  // The BQL field that corresponds to the DAC field property which follows

	[PXDBString( IsKey = true, IsUnicode = true, InputMask = ">CCCCCC")]		// The Acumatica attribute
	public virtual string OrderNbr { get; set; }								// The DAC field property 


	// Not a DAC field property at all
	public string SomeProperty  
	{ 
		get; 
		set;
	}
}
```

## Code Fix Description

The code fix changes the name of the BQL field in the solution so that it matches the name of the DAC field property.

### Example of Incorrect Code

```C#
[PXHidden]
public class Dac : PXBqlTable, IBqlTable
{
	public abstract class nteID : PX.Data.BQL.BqlGuid.Field<nteID> { }

	[PXGuid]
	public Guid? NoteID { get; set; }
}
```

### Example of the Code Fix

```C#
[PXHidden]
public class Dac : PXBqlTable, IBqlTable
{
	public abstract class noteID : PX.Data.BQL.BqlGuid.Field<noteID> { }

	[PXGuid]
	public Guid? NoteID { get; set; }
}
```

## Related Articles

 - [PX1065](PX1065.md) 
 - [Data Querying](https://help.acumatica.com/Help?ScreenId=ShowWiki&pageid=9241a976-e062-4978-be14-2c1135642be2)
 - [Data Access Classes in Traditional BQL](https://help.acumatica.com/Help?ScreenId=ShowWiki&pageid=a47ddb36-eb85-486f-9d6b-49beac42fc80)
 - [Data Field](https://help.acumatica.com/Help?ScreenId=ShowWiki&pageid=b3d24079-bda4-4f82-9fbd-c444a8bcb733)